Testing, one, two, three, four, test, test, test, test, test, test, test, test.
I just got, that depends on how you define hardened criminal.
In my view, he perhaps is a more hardened criminal than many that I see because
He did steal the cultural heritage of the United States.
He's much more hardened than many people that we see here.
What do you think of his testimony?
Was it Kenny Rhodes testified that Bloomberg would say that he was insane if he was at a property?
It would be speculating for me to say what was the turning point for the jury, and I just would decline to do that.
Would someone say that 35 years might be a pretty hard sentence for someone who's just stole some books and didn't hurt anybody, killed anybody?
Well, again, it depends on what your definition is of what he did.
He didn't just steal library books out of a public library.
He stole rare, irreplaceable manuscripts, books, in quantities that no one can ever imagine, 20,000 different volumes.
The court will be limited by the federal sentencing guidelines as to what sentence can be imposed, but I disagree that a 35-year sentence
is outrageous under these circumstances.
You're opposing whether they can stay out of bail prior to sentencing?
Absolutely.
This man just stole 10 million dollars worth of public property.
How can you justify that?
I can.
Did you send any message that the jury came back for the question?
I never
speculate at what goes on in the jury room, so I don't know.
While the NGRI not guilty by reason of insanity defense was unsuccessful, do you acknowledge at least that he probably does require some attention, medical attention?
I am not a physician.
I am not a psychiatrist.
The federal prison system is very well equipped to make an evaluation and decide.
How much of a fine could he face?
On four counts, it would be a million dollars.
Do you have any idea what you'll be seeking?
Actually, at this point, I haven't thought far enough, that far ahead.
I can't tell you.
Are you happy it's over?
After all these months, it's almost a year.
Yes.
We are looking forward to returning the books to their owners.
getting them back to the public where they belong.
How long of a process do you think that will be?
Will you start that process now, the return of the books?
Yes, I have made a commitment to the libraries that helped us in this case to proceed with the return of the books that were the subject matter of this trial as quickly as possible, as quickly as I can do it through the court system.
The remaining books, we will make every effort to find the owners and return them as quickly as possible, but that is an enormous job.
There is so much work left to do that I can't even describe that to you.
The books have been carved up, the ownership marks have been removed, and it is going to continue to be a very...
Excuse me.
Difficult job for the government.
Very difficult.
Thanks, Linda.
Linda.
Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Good job.
Thanks.
You bet.
Sit down, Mr. Rosenberg.
That's all right, Ray.
That's all right.
Keep going off of any comments you have.
Come right over here.
You might be the simplest.
One or either of you can answer this.
Do you truly believe that your client is insane?
Well.
We think that there was an evidentiary basis.
We think we were compelled to raise the defense.
It was a hard-fought case.
The jury came back in disagreement.
That's it.
We don't regret what we're doing.
What did your client say after the verdict?
Not at liberty.
We can't do that.
Can't disclose any confidential communication.
Are you hopeful that the judge will take into account his mental condition even though your defense was unsuccessful and perhaps...
require him to have some treatment instead of hard time incarceration?
Yeah, you're getting into our legal positions.
Right.
What about your estimate of what the most damaging testimony was?
I don't want to go back and recount the case.
I just don't feel that there's anything that particularly stands out.
As far as the evidence concerned, I just think the jury concluded that there's no vulnerability.
Any regrets?
No regrets.
Evidence is clearly there.
Was not expert witnesses who said he was.
Do you plan any sort of appeal?
I didn't really want to discuss that.
The case is not over yet.
Are you hopeful that Mr. Blumberg will be released prior to sentencing?
We're going to find that out at 3 o'clock tomorrow.
We've got a hearing on that issue, and we're going to fight for that.
And the judge is going to have to make a decision.
You've got here a minute late.
What was your initial reaction to the verdict?
Is it sunk in yet?
Oh, it's sunk in.
Do you accept the verdict, and the jury has spoken, and you move on from there?
There were three forms of verdict.
One of them.
This man really mystifies a lot of people.
How would you guys, now that you've worked with him all this time, describe him?
I'm not going to characterize him.
Ask the jurors.
Yeah.
You talked about the hearing to determine the freedom or the temporary freedom of pending sentencing.
I was disappointed with the verdict, but the verdict stands.
We just have to leave it there.
And we have to go on.
The case is not over yet.
Sentencing remains.
We're still his advocates.
We're going to continue on.
It's too early.
What other avenues did you look at now?
I don't want to get into any strategy.
Thanks a lot.
Were you anxious while the jury was out?
Prosecutors are always anxious.
Lawyers are always anxious when the jury's out.
Not just this case, every case.
I mean, at the beginning, I would have said,
There was 101 shot of an NGRI, possibly scoring.
Of the what?
Not guilty by reason of insanity, making it.
I couldn't even imagine.
I thought that would be a desperate attempt in the beginning for a defense.
But towards the end, people were wondering which way you think it's going to go.
Just the fact that it had people uncertain about the outcome.
Were you at all uncertain about the outcome?
I was not uncertain as to what the outcome should be.
I never doubted that.
I'm back on.
That's what I thought.
Yes.
And what was that?
I can't remember what it was.
Well, 35 years.
Yeah, 35 years.
Yeah, count one is a five-year count.
Counts two, three, and four are 10-year counts.
Oh, I know what the other thing was.
No, I forgot it again.
Oh, I know.
About the books, how quickly can they go?
I mean, do you have like a sense of time period?
You've just sort of said you're moving along.
I would say as quickly as possible.
Obviously, the books that have been identified may be returned more quickly than the ones that we're still puzzled about.
Okay.
Well, I'm going to get out of your hair.
Any sense, and it's not necessarily related to Mr. Bloomberg, but have you ever been...
I don't believe there is such a thing.
You did a great job.
You don't believe it?
Honestly?
No.
You can ask him.
I was predicting you'd win one minute.
He predicted that he would be found guilty.
That's correct.
And I bet you thought that I wouldn't.
I thought that... They would win.
They would win.
But I've never picked one way.
But he's a book collector.
You've got to watch for people like him, you know?
Well...
Just kidding.
He looks like a sick kid to me.
I mean... But the point is... Maybe it's because I'm married to a social worker, you know?
Yeah.
He looks... I think he definitely needs some help.
You would probably even evaluate that yourself.
I would not.
I believe that it's up to the Bureau of Prisons to evaluate where he's at psychiatrically.
and to make that decision i'm just a prosecutor that's all i have to say thank you and i'll say that with the tape on i was exceedingly impressed i mean you made your case there was no question that he stole the books that you did everything that you said he did the musical instruments i might have said no one i mean if it were just if there wasn't a question of his stability um the music was
But then again, he knowingly carried them.
Absolutely.
That's all I have to prove.
Not that he intended to steal them.
Not at all.
Just that he drove them across the line.
Right.
Because that's the federal offense.
The federal offense is not the actual theft.
Well, congratulations.
Thanks, Nick.